<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE: It is auto-generated by `make update-man` -->

# whichpm(1) - locate installed Perl modules

## SYNOPSIS

Prints the filesystem paths of the specified Perl modules, if installed.

    whichpm    [-v] [-q] [-e] <module_name>...
    whichpm -a [-v] [-q] [-e] [<module_name>...]

    -a ... lists all installed module files / all module files matching  
           the specified name(s) (checks for accidental duplicates)
    -v ... verbose mode: also prints name, version, core-module status
    -q ... suppresses warnings
    -e ... opens modules in default text editor

Standard options: `--help`, `--man`, `--version`, `--home`

## DESCRIPTION

`whichpm` reports the filesystem path of Perl modules by module (package)  
name, similar to what the Unix `which` utility does for binaries.

Optionally, additional information can be output, and all installed modules  
can be listed.

The exit code reflects the number of modules that could NOT be found.  
I.e., a non-zero exit code implies that at least one module could not be  
found.  
Conversely, exit code 0 implies that all specified modules were located  
successfully.

Note that using `-v` requires starting a separate Perl instance for each  
module examined in order to determine the version number. A separate Perl  
instance is the only safe way to load a module without affecting operation  
of this utility itself.  
Combining `-v` with `-a` with no module names therefore results in a  
lengthy, resource-intensive operation.

## OPTIONS

* `-a, --all`, if no module names are specified, prints the filesystem paths  
  of all installed modules. See caveat re combining with `-v` above.    
  Otherwise, prints the paths of all files matching the specified module  
  name(s), which effectively tells you whether a given module is accidentally  
  installed in more than one location.

* `-e, --edit` also opens the module files in your system's default text  
  editor. On Windows, you may be prompted to choose that editor on first run.  
  Caveat: Will not work on Cygwin.

* `-v, --verbose` also outputs the package name, version number, and  
  information about whether the module is a core module; see performance  
  caveat above.  
  Output format:  
   `<name>\t<version>\t<core-indicator>\t<path>`  
  On Unix platforms, pipe to `column -t` for column-aligned display.  
  If the package name or version number cannot be determined, '?' is printed.  
  `<core-indicator>` shows the following:  
  If the module is a core module:  
    Something like `core>=5.005`, which indicates what Perl version first  
    included the module.  
    To see a list of what Perl version included what version of the module,  
    run `corelist -a <module_name>`.  
  Otherwise: `(non-core)`  
  If your Perl version is too old to support this check, or if the module  
  name is unknown, you'll see `(n/a)`.

* `-q, --quiet` suppresses warnings, such as module file's package name  
  cannot be determined, or duplicate module files are found, or, on Windows  
  or OSX, when a case-inexact form of a module name is specified.

## STANDARD OPTIONS

All standard options provide information only.

 * `-h, --help`  
   Prints the contents of the synopsis chapter to stdout for quick reference.

 * `--man`  
  Displays this manual page, which is a helpful alternative to using `man`  
  if the manual page is not installed, such as on Windows.

 * `--version`  
   Prints version information.

 * `--home`  
   Opens this utility's home page in the system's default web browser.

## NOTES

On platforms with case-sensitive filesystems you must specify case-exact  
package names, as Perl itself requires; for instance, 'data::dumper' will  
not find the 'Data::Dumper' module.  
On case-insensitive filesystems, such as on Windows and OS X, you can get  
away with specifying a case-inexact package name, but a warning will be  
issued.

Note that Perl's search path for modules (`@INC`) typically includes the  
current directory (`.`), so you may get different results depending  
on which directory `whichpm` is called from.

When using `-a` without module names in combination with `-v`, the package  
names have to be extracted by custom-parsing the module file, which may  
not succeed in all cases - package declarations may be missed, or false  
positives may be found.

## COMPATIBILITY

Requires Perl v5.4.50 or higher; for core-module status information,  
v5.8.9 or higher is required. 
Expected to work on Unix-like platforms and Windows.

## EXAMPLES

    # Find and report additional information about the Data::Dumper module,
    # then open it in the default text editor.
    whichpm -v -e Data::Dumper
    
## LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2015 Michael Klement (mklement0@gmail.com), released under   
the [MIT license](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT)
